So far we have implemented validations and all of them are running on the client side.
But for some of the restrictions, we are dependent onto the back end.
Like for this case, we have this email and let's say email cannot be used in multiple sign up request.
So we need to validate that one as well.
And to do that we need to ask to the backend to verify if that email is in use or not.
So far the validations we are doing on client side are synchronous, but to achieve this backend validation
functionality we need to define asynchronous validators.
Now let's add a test for that.
I'm not going to use this repeating test for this one, but I will just create a new one.
Just copying this repeating test function here and adding right here.
Now, in this one, it displays.
Let's say the error will be email in use when.
Email.
It is not unique.
It's replaced this field here with the email.
We are filling the email input and we are expecting this validation error to be visible in the email
validation right here.
And the message will be this one email in use.
This is the error.
We are going to feel the input with the value, but in this one we are going to make an API request
and in previous test we have the validating the sign up request and we were using this HTTP testing
control.
So we will do the same thing here as well.
So just copying this HTP testing controller.
So we have this instance of the TB testing controller.
Now let's say we are going to fill the form with an email like non unique email at gmail.com and we
are filling the form, we are losing the focus.
Then this is going to be we're making an API request to backend and we can handle that request here.
We are going to expect a request to be going to a URL.
But in the previous use cases like here, it disables button.
When there is an ongoing API call, we are just passing a URL to this expect one.
But this exact one function is not just taking a URL instead of URL, we can pass a function like a
callback function.
So defining that function here, having an arrow function.
Basically this function will be called whenever the client is triggered and this function, this callback
function will be called with the the values we are looking for.
We can give the name as the variable, like the parameter is the request.
And from this request we can take the the URL or the method type or we can get the body as well.
So instead of like having the request here, let's use object structuring and let's take the URL method
and body.
So in the request we are going to make a request to this URL.
So let's check first if a URL is going to be
API one zero user email.
So this is the URL in hpakant and we are going to send the request to this URL and the method will be
post.
We are going to send the post request.
So if the request is going to this URL and this method, then we will check.
Like if the, the body, this body.
This is the request, but the JSON object and there will be email filled in it if it is equal to this.
URL.
And this is going to be returning true.
So that means the request is handled in the sensitivity testing controller.
Otherwise we will return directive false.
So by defining this, expect one callback function like this, we are specifically looking for a request,
a post request to this URL, having a request body containing this email and this email is the value
we are entering into the input.
So let's assign this to request and then we can return the response.
Flush.
Okay.
So the back end logic is like if we send this request to back and if there is that if there is a user
with the email address we are sending request, then it's returning success response, which means there
is that user.
So on client side, if we receive a success for this request, that means the validation is failing.
So what we are doing here is like we are just returning the success like this.
So then we are triggering the UI updates.
Then again, we are checking the email validation to appear on this div to appear and it is going to
have this text content in it.
So the test is ready.
Let's save this one.
So this is failing because at the moment we are not sending any request to back end to this URL for
the email control.
Now we are going to create a new validator function.
We already have one for the password match, but this one is going to be in different shape because
this is just a function it doesn't depend on to any external services or anything.
But for the unique image validation, we need to use the client.
Or we can use our user service user service cluster right here.
We can use user service to make the API request to vacant.
So we need to inject this user service into our validator.
And to do that, we are going to create the validator like this.
Let's create a new module here.
Unique email validator.
Yes.
Now this is going to be a class and let's name it as a unique email validator.
And this is going to be async.
The async validator functionality and angular forms comes with an interface for this one, and that
is so this class is going to be implementing async validator.
So this is going to be a class, but this is going to be something similar to this user service.
So we are going to ask Angular to initialize an instance for this one.
So we are adding this injectable.
So whenever Angular sees, we are using this unique image validator, it's going to be initializing
that one.
And when it's going to be initializing it, it's going to be calling its constructor.
And in the constructor then we can ask, let's also have this user service injected to this user service
injected to this this class.
So let's import the user service as well.
By the way, there is this error highlighted under this unique image validator because there is a function
coming with async validator and we didn't implement it yet.
So we can do it like this.
We can go to quick, quick fix and hit implement interface async validator and the the function is like
this similar again it is similar to the password to match validator.
It's a validator often taking and abstract control and as a response it is returning validation errors.
But the difference is that this is async and so like it's taking the control, abstract control, but
this time it is returning either promise or observable to achieve the async functionality.
So we have the validated function.
And when this validator is going to be called again, like taking the values for these password and
password repeat in the password match validator, we can take the value of the the email input.
But this is going to be.
Edit directly to the emailed form control.
So in the validator we will be able to access to the to the value of the email.
Just like this control value.
So this control is representing the form control element of the email.
And by accessing the value we will receive the value of the email input.
Now we will be taking the video like this and let's use this user service.
Let's also fix the typo here.
It's going to be user service.
Let's have a function in the user service.
That's called user service.
And let's say it has is email taken.
Let's say it has this function.
At the moment it is not, but we will create it and we are going to call this function and let's pass
just the email value to this function.
Then this is going to be returning to just like for the sign up.
It's going to be returning the typical and post requests back, which is returning observable.
So here we can return this thing.
So let's create this function in in the user service.
I use the the quick fix coming with the vs code.
So I declared the function here.
Let's move it to here.
Now we don't need this part, just removing it.
So this is going to be taking the value.
This is going to be string.
And basically it's going to be the the email input value.
And we are going to return this HTTP client.
We are going to send the post request to this endpoint API one zero user email.
That's the URL we are.
Defining here in the spec as well.
So we are sending the request to this one and the first request is looking for a second parameter,
and that's the body.
And basically, it's going to be a JSON, having the email field, having the value we are passing to
it.
So the user service is ready.
Now we need to update the the behavior here as well in the password match validator.
If you remember, we are returning either null or an object having the validation name.
And if that validation is fail, we set it to true so we will return similar something similar to this
one.
But the difference is it's going to be an observable or promise type.
So this is already an observable and we can use the observable functionalities here to map the the response
to the thing we are looking for.
And for that, we can use the pipe functionality of the observable.
So far we have used only the subscribed functionality of this observed observable, which is basically
we are passing a callback function and it's called whenever it is observable, receives data and the
pipe is also doing similar thing.
We are able to check the values in the pipe and we can also use additional exchange functionalities
like we can map the response to the the value we need on the validation part.
Like there is this map coming from access.
So basically this is a function and it takes a callback.
Like this.
And as a parameter it passes as the body coming from the back end.
And if you remember, the back end is returning to 100 when that that email is seen when when that email
is used.
So we are not going to be caring about the request, buddy.
So we can just go with the underscore here and we can say if it is there, if this is the success case,
if there is a success response, then that means we are going to return an object and just like password
match.
This time we are going to have this unique email and it's going to be true.
Otherwise it's going to be null.
But this is the success case of the API request.
But the API requests may fail with like a timeout or server error or those kind of things.
And that is going to be handled in, by the way, we can pass multiple functions into this pipe.
These functions are called as operator function.
The map is an operator function and we can pass multiple operator function to pipe.
So this is handling the mapping for the success cases.
And if there is an error, we can handle that error here.
Catch error.
And basically in this one, we are going to return null because we don't know the validation failure
because we received an error from backend.
And what we need is we need to return an observable here.
So there is again callback function which is going to be returning an observable and we can create an
observable by this off function of the JS.
This is like a factory method which is returning an observable and we can create an observable with
null value.
So this part may seem a bit confusing because of the textures part, but if I summarize it once again,
basically this request is being processed in this pipe and we are mapping if if we are receiving success
response, we don't care about the body of the the response.
So we are just dealing if we are receiving success, then let's return this back.
Otherwise it's going to be null.
And in any case, if we have error coming like the 500 error or anything else, then it's going to be
handled in this catch block, which is going to be returning null again.
So on the UI part, we are not going to show any validation error.
We will only show the validation error when this request receives 200 OC from back end.
And this is going to be the the message we are going to returning from this validator function.
So the email validator is ready now.
We are going to use it in the.
Sign up component.
So far we are using the validators in this area.
But these are the synchronous validators.
These are the the validators in the for the client side.
But now we are going to use an async validator and for that we will do something like this.
I'm just cutting this array.
And for the form control is a second parameter.
We can pass an object and in this object there is this validators and we can paste the validators I
just cut here.
So these are the synchronous validators and there is another option here in this object, async validators.
And for the async validators we will use the function this.
Function.
Here.
So we need to get the unique email validator first.
So let's inject it here.
And that's going to be private.
Unique email validator and the type is a unique email validator.
So we are going to again, this is an array.
We are going to call this unique email validators validate function.
But we need to be careful here in the validate function.
We are using this keyword here, so we have to make sure this is bound to the the unique email validator
instance.
And we do that like this.
We say this, this unique email validator of validate functions is binding this unique email validator.
So when.
It is going to be calling this.
It's going to be referring to the instance we are using in this signup component.
So to make it visible, let's move it to the next line here.
Like this.
So we have this this async validator associated with this email now and now whenever this validator
fails, we are getting the email validation errors here, like the the required validation may fail
or the email pattern validation failed.
And now we have.
This unique email.
With the Dacian case.
So adding else if I field errors as this error, then we are going to return.
And the message is this one email in use.
So it is going to be returning this error message and in template in the email validation we are calling
this email error.
So which whichever validation fails, we will be displaying that validations that validation errors
message on the UI.
So let's save these changes.
And here we see the tests are passing and let's test it on browser as well.
So here on browser, let's open the developer tools.
So here is the developer tools in the network tab.
Let's see the request going to the back end.
So in the back end application, there are 25 users and the user emails are like user and index at mail
comp.
So like a user to add gmail.com or user 25 at mail, these are the users in backhand.
And here in the the network tab here we can see there are requests going and this one for instance when
I was typing user to it this goes out and the this goes to backhand and as a response it is returning
404 and it returns this user not found message back but as I type new request going and the final one
is this one user at his or to it mail and I'm receiving this this payload back and it is return to hundred
which means there is that user and basically that and it's ending up with the validation error.
And we displayed the message to the user by the way, like if I type anything here, like in every type
we are sending a new request to back and we can reduce the, the, the request going back to the back
end by doing this.
So this object has the validators and validators and we have an option here update on and we can tell
this validator logic to be rerun when we blur from this input.
So let's save this and let's see how it's working.
So just clearing the terminal.
So filling with user 25 at mail.
Com.
So hitting tab to go to the next input.
And here we are seeing a request going to the backend for this this email and it is returning this 200.
Okay.
Which means the validation is failing.
So if I type anything here, there is no request.
So basically the OAM blur is making this this validation to rerun when we are blurring from this input.
Now this update on this blur thing is breaking one of our previous tests and in this one this is for
the interactions sent username, email and password to back and after clicking the button and here we
are seeing the email is left empty here.
It is not this one user one it mail, it is empty.
And if we checked the tests here and the test is this one here we are using this setup form and setup
for me is basically here.
Now we have this, this, this form control now is acting after we lose the focus, after we blur from
this form control.
But in this setup form, we are just calling this this input event, but we are not calling the blur
event like we did in our validation test.
So what we need to do is here for this email input only we can.
Say it also to dispatch the blur event so that value we are entering to this input to be added to the
to be processed in the validator logic and to be part of the whole request.
But so just saving like this.
And here we see all tests are passing.